
# move

- h,j,k,l
- w,b,e
- G: go to top
- gg: go to end
- { }, skip a block of code
- V: select line
- ctrl-v: select block of code (same column)
- ^: begin line, $: end of line 
- t/f + char: go to the specific char in the line
- %: go to specific parenthese
- *: search for other instance

# change

- u: undo
- ctrl+r: redo
- yy: Copy line
- p: paste below
- P: paste above
- dd
- dw
- D: delete to the end of line 
- o: insert line below
- O: insert line above
- c: change 
- x: delete char
- ~: change the case of char 
- r: replace char
- > < : 增加缩小缩进
- yt+char:复制到那个char

# search

替换改行的第一个old单词为new
:s/old/new

替换改行的所有old单词为new
:s/old/new/g

替换两个# 之间的单词
`:#,#s/old/new/g`

替换文件中所有的单词
:%s/old/new/g

每一个替换之前都需要确认的话，在命令末尾加一个 c
:%s/old/new/gc


# Config

## basic

- filetype on  
  - " Enable type file detection. Vim will be able to try to detect the type of file in use.
- filetype plugin on
- filetype indent on
- syntax on
- set number
  - show line number
- set cursorline
  - Highlight cursor line underneath the cursor horizontally.
- set shiftwidth=4
- set tabstop=4
- set hlsearch
- set incsearch
    - While searching though a file incrementally highlight matching characters as you type.
- set showmatch
  - Show matching words during a search.
- set history=1000
  - Set the commands to save in history default number is 20.
- set wildmenu
  - Enable auto completion menu after pressing TAB.
- set wildmode=list:longest
- set wildignore=*.docx,*.jpg,*.png,*.gif,*.pdf,*.pyc,*.exe,*.flv,*.img,*.xlsx
- set ttyfast
- set showmode
- set encoding=utf-8
- 
## status bar

```
" STATUS LINE ------------------------------------------------------------ {{{

" Clear status line when vimrc is reloaded.
set statusline=

" Status line left side.
set statusline+=\ %F\ %M\ %Y\ %R

" Use a divider to separate the left side from the right side.
set statusline+=%=

" Status line right side.
set statusline+=\ ascii:\ %b\ hex:\ 0x%B\ row:\ %l\ col:\ %c\ percent:\ %p%%

" Show the status on the second to last line.
set laststatus=2

" }}}
```

%F – Display the full path of the current file.

%M – Modified flag shows if file is unsaved.

%Y – Type of file in the buffer.

%R – Displays the read-only flag.

%b – Shows the ASCII/Unicode character under cursor.

0x%B – Shows the hexadecimal character under cursor.

%l – Display the row number.

%c – Display the column number.

%p%% – Show the cursor percentage from the top of the file.
## key mapping

map_mode <what_you_type> <what_is_executed>

nnoremap – Allows you to map keys in normal mode.
inoremap – Allows you to map keys in insert mode.
vnoremap – Allows you to map keys in visual mode.

## use

- add `~/.vimrc`
- load `:so %`