
# index

In order to efficiently find the value for a particular key in the database, we need a different data structure: an index

A table index is a **replica of a subset** of a table's columns that are organized and/or sorted for efficient access using a subset of those column

## B+ tree

- b+ tree:
    - **self-balancing** tree data structure that keeps data sorted and allows searches, sequential access, insertions, and deletions in O(log n).
    - m-way search tree: every leaf node is at the same depth
    - every node with m/2+1 <= k <= m keys, k keys, k+1 child
    - |link(< k )|key1|link( < k2 )|key2|link3( >= k2)|...
    - node is an array of key/value pairs, key is column, value differ based on whether the node is classified as inner nodes or leaf nodes.
    - only stores values in leaf nodes. Inner nodes only guide the search process.
- B+TREE DESIGN CHOICES
    - node size
    - Merge Threshold : maybe delay merge operation
    - Variable Length Keys : 
    - Non-Unique Indexes : 
    - Intra-Node Search: binary search 
- optimization:
    - prefix compression: store prefix and only store defferent substring, leaf node
    - suffix truncation: key very different and you only need suffix to see which key to go left or right, inner node
    - bulk insert
    - POINTER SWIZZLING

## other index

- skip list
    - dynamic order-preserving index use a sorted linked list
    - **Multiple levels** of linked lists with extra pointers that skip over intermediate nodes.
    - To insert a new key, **flip a coin** to decide how many levels to add the new key into. Provides approximate O(log n) search times.
    - First logically remove a key from the index by setting a flag to tell threads to ignore.
    - Then physically remove the key once we know that no other thread is holding the reference.
    - pros
        - less space
        - no rebalance
    - cons
        - not disk friendly, reverse search not good
- radix tree
    - Represent keys as individual digits. This allows threads to examine prefixes one-by-one instead of comparing entire key.
    - 可能的问题就是一些不好表示，比如signed int，float
- inverted index
    - full text search index
